{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Arial;}}
\fs22
# Magic: The Gathering | Marvel Super Heroes \u8212? Collecting Knowledge Base\par
\par
Source article: Wizards of the Coast, \u8220?Collecting Magic: The Gathering\u174? | Marvel Super Heroes: The Four Most Important Things to Know,\u8221? published June 2, 2026.\par
\par
This file is a paraphrased, structured knowledge-base digest of the source page. It is not a verbatim copy of the article. Use it to answer questions about Magic: The Gathering | Marvel Super Heroes product contents, release timing, set codes, legality, Booster Fun treatments, booster collation, and prerelease contents.\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 1. Core Set Facts\par
\par
- Product line: Magic: The Gathering | Marvel Super Heroes.\par
- Tabletop release date: June 26, 2026.\par
- MTG Arena release date: June 23, 2026.\par
- Prerelease event window: June 19\u8211?25, 2026.\par
- Main set code: MSH.\par
- Commander set code: MSC.\par
- Source Material Cards set code: MAR.\par
- The set combines Magic gameplay with characters, locations, artwork, and stories from the Marvel Universe.\par
\par
### Legality\par
\par
- MSH cards are legal in all Magic formats.\par
- MSC and MAR are Eternal-legal sets: legal in Commander, Legacy, and Vintage.\par
- Individual MSC/MAR cards may also be legal in other formats where those cards are already legal.\par
- Play Boosters can contain cards from both MSH and MAR.\par
- Cards opened from Play Boosters are playable in Magic: The Gathering | Marvel Super Heroes Draft and Sealed.\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 2. Important Dates\par
\par
- Summer Game Fest Play Event: June 5, 2026.\par
- Commander Deck Reveals: June 8\u8211?11, 2026.\par
- Full Card Image Gallery: June 12, 2026.\par
- Avengers Academy: June 12\u8211?18, 2026.\par
- Prerelease Events: June 19\u8211?25, 2026.\par
- MTG Arena Release Date: June 23, 2026.\par
- Tabletop Release Date: June 26, 2026.\par
- Magic Academy: June 26\u8211?August 6, 2026.\par
- Standard Showdown: June 26\u8211?August 6, 2026.\par
- Magic Spotlight: Marvel Super Heroes in Las Vegas: June 26\u8211?28, 2026.\par
- Commander Party Round 1: July 3\u8211?9, 2026.\par
- MagicCon: Amsterdam and Pro Tour Magic: The Gathering | Marvel Super Heroes: July 17\u8211?19, 2026.\par
- Magic Presents: God of Mischief: July 17\u8211?23, 2026.\par
- Magic Spotlight: Marvel Super Heroes in Brussels: July 24\u8211?26, 2026.\par
- Commander Party Round 2: July 31\u8211?August 6, 2026.\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 3. MSRP Reference\par
\par
The article lists the following US MSRPs:\par
\par
| Product | MSRP |\par
|---|---:|\par
| Play Booster | $6.99 |\par
| Collector Booster | $37.99 |\par
| Jumpstart Booster | $6.99 |\par
| Commander Deck | $74.99 |\par
| Collector\u8217?s Edition Commander Deck | $159.99 |\par
| Bundle | $69.99 |\par
| Gift Bundle | $89.99 |\par
| Draft Night | $119.99 |\par
| Scene Box | $41.99 |\par
| Beginner Box | $34.99 |\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 4. Four Main Collecting Highlights\par
\par
### 4.1 The Mind Stone\par
\par
The Mind Stone is a major collectible card in the set and appears in three versions:\par
\par
1. Main set version.\par
   - Artwork by Volkan Baga.\par
   - Available in non-foil and traditional foil.\par
   - Found in both Play Boosters and Collector Boosters.\par
\par
2. Borderless Gauntlet version.\par
   - Shows the stone with Thanos imagery.\par
   - Traditional foil only.\par
   - Found only in Collector Boosters.\par
\par
3. Textless cosmic foil version.\par
   - Ultra-limited Marvel collectible.\par
   - Fewer than 150 copies printed.\par
   - Found only in Collector Boosters of any language.\par
   - Always English.\par
\par
### 4.2 Borderless Classic Comic Cards\par
\par
- Borderless classic comic cards use historic Marvel comic artwork on new-to-Magic legendary creature cards.\par
- These cards are positioned as premium collectibles and potential Commander centerpiece cards.\par
- There are 15 mythic rare classic comic cards.\par
- 4 of the classic comic cards are double-faced cards.\par
- They are traditional foil only.\par
- They are found only in Collector Boosters.\par
- They can appear in Collector Boosters of any language, but the cards themselves are always English.\par
\par
### 4.3 Borderless Source Material Cards\par
\par
- Borderless source material cards combine Marvel comic artwork with Magic reprints.\par
- Featured Marvel artists include names such as Jack Kirby, Alex Ross, Dan Adkins, and Tony S. Daniel.\par
- This category includes source material versions of legendary creatures from Secret Lair\u8217?s Marvel Superdrop.\par
- There are 60 source material cards.\par
- Three of the 60 are different versions of Heroic Intervention.\par
- Source material cards have equal appearance rates within the source material card pool.\par
- A non-foil source material card replaces a common in roughly 1 in 24 Play Boosters.\par
- Every Collector Booster contains one non-foil or traditional foil source material card.\par
\par
### 4.4 Borderless Logo Cards\par
\par
- Borderless logo cards use stylized Marvel character art on monocolor backgrounds with character logos.\par
- They appear on legendary creatures from across the set.\par
- There are 15 rare logo cards and 13 mythic rare logo cards.\par
- They appear in non-foil and traditional foil versions.\par
- They can be found in Play Boosters and Collector Boosters.\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 5. Booster Fun Treatments and Collectible Card Categories\par
\par
### 5.1 Borderless Scene Cards\par
\par
- Scene cards combine to form larger Marvel artwork scenes.\par
- They can be collected for decks, binders, display, or gameplay.\par
- There are six scenes available from cards found in Play Boosters and Collector Boosters:\par
  - A 4-card Fantastic Four scene by Leinil Francis Yu and Sunny Gho.\par
  - A 4-card Daredevil vs. Hell\u8217?s Kitchen foes scene by Kev Walker.\par
  - A 6-card Captain America vs. HYDRA scene by Annie Wu.\par
  - A 6-card gamma-themed confrontation scene by Adi Granov.\par
  - An 18-card cosmic cube battle scene by Johan Grenier.\par
  - A 5-card meal-sharing scene by Chris Bachalo, formed from the front faces of double-sided scene cards.\par
- Scene cards in Play Boosters and Collector Boosters include:\par
  - 3 commons.\par
  - 12 uncommons.\par
  - 8 rares.\par
  - 15 mythic rares.\par
- Scene cards appear in non-foil and traditional foil in Play Boosters and Collector Boosters.\par
- There are two Scene Boxes, and each Scene Box contains 6 traditional foil new-to-Magic borderless scene cards.\par
- Non-foil versions of Scene Box scene cards appear in Collector Boosters.\par
\par
### 5.2 Borderless Lands\par
\par
- The set introduces five new rare dual lands.\par
- Each rare dual land has a borderless version showing the location through an Avengers computer-screen style treatment.\par
- There are 5 rare borderless lands.\par
- They appear in non-foil and traditional foil versions in Play Boosters and Collector Boosters.\par
\par
### 5.3 Showcase Panel Cards\par
\par
- Showcase panel cards use a comic-panel-inspired frame.\par
- They highlight major Marvel objects, stories, and moments.\par
- Examples include Mj\u246?lnir, Hammer of Thor and Armor Wars.\par
- There are 11 rare showcase panel cards and 6 mythic rare showcase panel cards.\par
- They appear in non-foil and traditional foil versions in Play Boosters and Collector Boosters.\par
\par
### 5.4 Full-Art City Calm and City Chaos Basic Lands\par
\par
The set includes two full-art basic land cycles:\par
\par
- City calm basic lands: quieter moments featuring Super Heroes in calmer city settings.\par
- City chaos basic lands: action-focused city scenes across Marvel locations.\par
\par
Availability by product:\par
\par
| Product | Basic land treatment availability |\par
|---|---|\par
| Play Boosters | Non-foil and traditional foil city calm and city chaos basics |\par
| Collector Boosters | Traditional foil city calm and city chaos basics |\par
| Jumpstart Boosters | 1 non-foil city calm or city chaos basic per booster |\par
| Bundles | 1 non-foil and 1 traditional foil city chaos basic of each type |\par
| Gift Bundles | 1 non-foil and 1 traditional foil city calm basic of each type |\par
| Collector\u8217?s Edition Commander Decks | Surge foil city calm and city chaos basics |\par
| Beginner Boxes | Non-foil city calm and city chaos basics |\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 6. Product Details\par
\par
## 6.1 Play Boosters\par
\par
A Play Booster box contains 30 Play Boosters.\par
\par
Each Play Booster contains:\par
\par
- 14 Magic cards.\par
- 1 helper card or double-sided token.\par
\par
### Play Booster card slot structure\par
\par
| Slot | Contents / notes |\par
|---|---|\par
| 7 common slots | Main set commons; scene cards may appear; source material card can replace a common in about 1 in 24 boosters. |\par
| 3 uncommon slots | Main set uncommons; uncommon scene cards can appear. |\par
| 1 wildcard slot | Can be common, uncommon, rare, or mythic rare; can include main set cards, scene cards, logo cards, panel cards, and rare borderless lands. |\par
| 1 rare/mythic slot | Main set rare/mythic, scene card, logo card, or panel card. |\par
| 1 traditional foil slot | Foil card of any rarity; can include main set cards, scene cards, logo cards, panel cards, or borderless land. |\par
| 1 land slot | Can be common dual land, default-frame basic land, city calm basic, or city chaos basic, in non-foil or traditional foil. |\par
| 1 helper/token slot | Non-foil helper card or double-sided token. |\par
\par
### Play Booster key counts and rates\par
\par
- Common slots:\par
  - 81 main-set commons are available in the common slots.\par
  - 3 common scene cards appear in the common slots at an 8.6% rate.\par
  - A non-foil source material card replaces a common in 1 out of 24 Play Boosters.\par
- Uncommon slots:\par
  - 100 main-set uncommons are available in the uncommon slots.\par
  - 12 uncommon scene cards appear in the uncommon slots at a 12% rate.\par
- Wildcard slot:\par
  - Main set common: 12.4%.\par
  - Main set uncommon: 64%.\par
  - Main set rare: 16.8%.\par
  - Main set mythic rare: 2.1%.\par
  - Uncommon scene card: 2.7%.\par
  - Rare borderless land: 1%.\par
  - Other wildcard possibilities include lower-rate common/rare/mythic scene cards, rare/mythic logo cards, and rare/mythic panel cards.\par
- Rare/mythic slot:\par
  - Main set rare: 76.1%.\par
  - Main set mythic rare: 16.6%.\par
  - Rare scene card: 1%.\par
  - Mythic rare scene card: 0.8%.\par
  - Rare logo card: 2.4%.\par
  - Mythic rare logo card: 0.7%.\par
  - Rare panel card: 1.9%.\par
  - Mythic rare panel card: less than 1%.\par
- Traditional foil slot:\par
  - Main set common: 59.9%.\par
  - Main set uncommon: 29.6%.\par
  - Main set rare: 5.9%.\par
  - Main set mythic rare: 1.2%.\par
  - Uncommon scene card: 1.2%.\par
  - Other foil possibilities include low-rate scene, logo, panel, and borderless land cards.\par
- Land slot:\par
  - Non-foil common dual land: 40%.\par
  - Traditional foil common dual land: 10%.\par
  - Non-foil default-frame basic land: 20%.\par
  - Traditional foil default-frame basic land: 5%.\par
  - Non-foil city calm basic land: 10%.\par
  - Traditional foil city calm basic land: 2.5%.\par
  - Non-foil city chaos basic land: 10%.\par
  - Traditional foil city chaos basic land: 2.5%.\par
- Helper/token slot:\par
  - Non-foil helper card: 8.5%.\par
  - Double-sided token: 91.5%.\par
\par
Note for simulations: Play Boosters in this set do contain lands in the land slot, including common dual lands and multiple types of basic lands.\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 6.2 Collector Boosters\par
\par
A Collector Booster box contains 12 Collector Boosters.\par
\par
Each Collector Booster contains:\par
\par
- 15 Magic cards.\par
- 1 art card or traditional foil double-sided token.\par
\par
### Collector Booster card slot structure\par
\par
| Slot | Contents / notes |\par
|---|---|\par
| 3 traditional foil common cards | Main set commons and common dual lands. |\par
| 2 traditional foil uncommons | Main set uncommons. |\par
| 2 traditional foil common MSC cards | Jumpstart reprints or new-to-Magic Jumpstart cards. |\par
| 1 traditional foil uncommon MSC card | Mostly new-to-Magic Jumpstart cards, with some Jumpstart reprints. |\par
| 1 traditional foil common/uncommon scene card | Common or uncommon scene card. |\par
| 1 traditional foil city basic land | City calm or city chaos basic land. |\par
| 1 traditional foil rare/mythic card | Main set, scene, logo, Jumpstart, Welcome Deck, or related card category. |\par
| 1 non-foil Commander deck Booster Fun card | Extended-art rares/mythics or borderless face commanders. |\par
| 1 non-foil rare/mythic Booster Fun card | Extended art, scene, logo, panel, Scene Box card, borderless rare land, or source material card. |\par
| 1 source material card | Non-foil 75% or traditional foil 25%. |\par
| 1 foil Booster Fun rare/mythic card | Foil extended art, scene, logo, panel, borderless land, classic comic, Gauntlet Mind Stone, or ultra-limited cosmic foil Mind Stone. |\par
| 1 art card/token slot | Traditional foil double-sided token or art card. |\par
\par
### Collector Booster key counts and rates\par
\par
- Traditional foil common slots:\par
  - Main set commons: 89%.\par
  - Common dual lands: 11%.\par
- Traditional foil MSC common slots:\par
  - Jumpstart reprints: 50%.\par
  - New-to-Magic Jumpstart cards: 50%.\par
- Traditional foil MSC uncommon slot:\par
  - Jumpstart reprints: 18.6%.\par
  - New-to-Magic Jumpstart cards: 81.4%.\par
- Traditional foil scene slot:\par
  - Common scene card: 20%.\par
  - Uncommon scene card: 80%.\par
- Traditional foil city land slot:\par
  - City calm basic: 50%.\par
  - City chaos basic: 50%.\par
- Traditional foil rare/mythic slot:\par
  - Main set rare: 45%.\par
  - Main set mythic rare: 9.4%.\par
  - Double-faced mythic scene card: 1.4%.\par
  - Double-faced mythic logo card: 1.4%.\par
  - Rare new-to-Magic Jumpstart card: 33.8%.\par
  - Mythic new-to-Magic Jumpstart card: 4.1%.\par
  - Rare Jumpstart reprint: 3%.\par
  - Mythic new-to-Magic Welcome Deck card: 1.9%.\par
- Non-foil Commander deck Booster Fun slot:\par
  - 203 extended-art rare cards: 93.6%.\par
  - 7 extended-art mythic rare cards: 3.2%.\par
  - 7 borderless face commanders: 3.2%.\par
- Non-foil rare/mythic Booster Fun slot:\par
  - Extended-art rare: 27.8%.\par
  - Extended-art mythic rare: 2.3%.\par
  - Rare scene card: 6.4%.\par
  - Mythic rare scene card: 4.9%.\par
  - Rare logo card: 15.1%.\par
  - Mythic rare logo card: 4.6%.\par
  - Rare panel card: 12.1%.\par
  - Mythic rare panel card: 2.6%.\par
  - Borderless Scene Box card: 13.9%.\par
  - Borderless rare land: 5.8%.\par
  - Borderless source material card: 4.5%.\par
- Source material slot:\par
  - Non-foil source material card: 75%.\par
  - Traditional foil source material card: 25%.\par
- Foil Booster Fun rare/mythic slot:\par
  - Traditional foil extended-art rare: 31.8%.\par
  - Traditional foil extended-art mythic rare: 2.7%.\par
  - Traditional foil rare scene card: 7.3%.\par
  - Traditional foil mythic rare scene card: 4%.\par
  - Traditional foil rare logo card: 17.2%.\par
  - Traditional foil mythic rare logo card: 3.6%.\par
  - Traditional foil rare panel card: 13.9%.\par
  - Traditional foil mythic rare panel card: 3%.\par
  - Traditional foil borderless rare land: 6.6%.\par
  - Traditional foil classic comic card: 9.9%.\par
  - Traditional foil borderless Gauntlet Mind Stone: less than 1%.\par
  - Textless cosmic foil Mind Stone: extremely limited quantity.\par
- Art card/token slot:\par
  - Traditional foil double-sided token: 64%.\par
  - Art card: 32%.\par
  - Gold-stamped art card variant: 4%.\par
  - There are 54 art cards.\par
\par
Notes:\par
\par
- Double-faced scene cards do not appear in the foil Booster Fun scene slot.\par
- Double-faced logo cards do not appear in the foil Booster Fun logo slot.\par
- Classic comic cards are always English, even when found in Collector Boosters of other languages.\par
- The textless cosmic foil Mind Stone is always English and can appear in Collector Boosters of any language.\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 6.3 Jumpstart Boosters\par
\par
A Jumpstart Booster box contains 24 Jumpstart Boosters.\par
\par
Each Jumpstart Booster contains:\par
\par
- 20 Magic cards.\par
- 1 theme insert.\par
- 1 full-art city calm or city chaos basic land.\par
- At least 1 new-to-Magic MSC card.\par
\par
Additional detail:\par
\par
- There are 51 possible Jumpstart themes.\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 6.4 Commander Decks\par
\par
The four Commander Decks are:\par
\par
- Avengers Assemble.\par
- Wakanda Forever.\par
- The Fantastic Four.\par
- Doom Prevails.\par
\par
Each Commander Deck includes:\par
\par
- 1 ready-to-play 100-card Commander deck.\par
- 10 non-foil double-sided tokens.\par
- 1 reference card.\par
- 1 deck box.\par
\par
Deck-specific commander/card configuration:\par
\par
- Avengers Assemble, Wakanda Forever, and Doom Prevails each include:\par
  - 1 traditional foil face commander with borderless art.\par
  - 99 non-foil cards.\par
  - 29 new-to-Magic cards.\par
- The Fantastic Four includes:\par
  - 4 traditional foil face commanders with borderless art.\par
  - 96 non-foil cards.\par
  - 26 new-to-Magic cards.\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 6.5 Collector\u8217?s Edition Commander Decks\par
\par
The four Collector\u8217?s Edition Commander Decks are:\par
\par
- Avengers Assemble Collector\u8217?s Edition.\par
- Wakanda Forever Collector\u8217?s Edition.\par
- The Fantastic Four Collector\u8217?s Edition.\par
- Doom Prevails Collector\u8217?s Edition.\par
\par
Each Collector\u8217?s Edition Commander Deck includes:\par
\par
- 1 ready-to-play 100-card Commander deck.\par
- 10 double-sided tokens.\par
- 1 reference card.\par
- 1 deck box.\par
\par
Foil and card configuration:\par
\par
- Avengers Assemble, Wakanda Forever, and Doom Prevails Collector\u8217?s Edition Commander Decks include:\par
  - 1 surge foil face commander with borderless art.\par
  - 99 surge foil cards.\par
  - Full-art basic lands.\par
  - 29 new-to-Magic cards.\par
- The Fantastic Four Collector\u8217?s Edition includes:\par
  - 4 surge foil face commanders with borderless art.\par
  - 96 surge foil cards.\par
  - Full-art basic lands.\par
  - 26 new-to-Magic cards.\par
- Collector\u8217?s Edition tokens are surge foil on one side and non-foil on the other.\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 6.6 Bundle\par
\par
Each Bundle includes:\par
\par
- 9 Play Boosters.\par
- 15 traditional foil basic lands, including 5 full-art city chaos basics.\par
- 15 non-foil basic lands, including 5 full-art city chaos basics.\par
- 2 reference cards.\par
- 1 traditional foil The Scarlet Witch promo card.\par
- 1 oversized spindown life counter.\par
- 1 card-storage box.\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 6.7 Gift Bundle\par
\par
Each Gift Bundle includes:\par
\par
- 9 Play Boosters.\par
- 1 Collector Booster.\par
- 15 traditional foil basic lands, including 5 full-art city calm basics.\par
- 15 non-foil basic lands, including 5 full-art city calm basics.\par
- 2 reference cards.\par
- 1 traditional foil Daredevil, Man Without Fear promo card.\par
- 1 oversized spindown life counter.\par
- 1 card-storage box.\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 6.8 Draft Night\par
\par
Each Draft Night product includes:\par
\par
- 12 Play Boosters.\par
- 1 Collector Booster.\par
- 90 non-foil basic lands.\par
- 10 non-foil double-sided tokens.\par
- 1 draft insert.\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 6.9 Scene Boxes\par
\par
The two Scene Boxes are:\par
\par
- Heroes United.\par
- Villains Unleashed.\par
\par
Each Scene Box includes:\par
\par
- 3 Play Boosters.\par
- 6 traditional foil borderless scene cards.\par
- 6 art cards.\par
- 1 display easel.\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 6.10 Beginner Box\par
\par
Each Beginner Box includes:\par
\par
- 10 themed Jumpstart half-decks.\par
- 2 of the half-decks are tutorial decks designed to be played against each other.\par
- Each half-deck contains 20 cards.\par
- 5 non-foil tokens.\par
- 2 gameboard playmats.\par
- 2 How to Play guides.\par
- 2 reference cards.\par
- 2 spindown dice.\par
- 1 reference guide booklet.\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 6.11 Prerelease Pack\par
\par
Each Prerelease Pack includes:\par
\par
- 6 Magic: The Gathering | Marvel Super Heroes Play Boosters.\par
- 1 traditional foil rare or mythic rare card.\par
- 1 deck box.\par
- 1 spindown die.\par
\par
Important simulation note:\par
\par
- Since each Prerelease Pack contains 6 Play Boosters, prerelease pool simulation should use the Play Booster collation rules above for those six boosters.\par
- In addition to the six boosters, add one traditional foil rare or mythic rare promo-style card from the prerelease pack contents.\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 7. Practical Answering Guidance for a Custom GPT\par
\par
When answering questions using this KB:\par
\par
1. Distinguish between the set codes:\par
   - MSH = main set.\par
   - MSC = Commander / Eternal-legal related product cards.\par
   - MAR = Source Material Cards.\par
\par
2. For prerelease questions:\par
   - A prerelease pack contains six Play Boosters plus one traditional foil rare or mythic rare card.\par
   - The booster component should follow Play Booster collation, including land slots.\par
\par
3. For Play Booster simulations:\par
   - Include 14 Magic cards plus a helper/token card.\par
   - Include a land slot.\par
   - The land slot can produce common dual lands, default-frame basic lands, city calm basics, or city chaos basics.\par
   - Do not treat Play Boosters as having no lands.\par
\par
4. For Collector Booster questions:\par
   - Collector Boosters are the primary place for premium treatments such as classic comic cards, the Gauntlet Mind Stone, and the ultra-limited cosmic foil Mind Stone.\par
   - Every Collector Booster has a source material card slot.\par
\par
5. For Booster Fun treatment questions:\par
   - Classic comic cards: 15 mythic rare, foil-only, Collector Booster only, always English.\par
   - Source material cards: 60 total, including three Heroic Intervention versions; Play Boosters have them about 1 in 24, while Collector Boosters include one source material card.\par
   - Logo cards: 15 rare and 13 mythic rare, found in Play Boosters and Collector Boosters.\par
   - Scene cards: available across common/uncommon/rare/mythic, with multiple multi-card scenes.\par
   - Panel cards: 11 rare and 6 mythic rare.\par
   - Borderless lands: 5 rare dual lands with borderless versions.\par
\par
6. For product recommendation questions:\par
   - Play Boosters support Limited play and normal pack opening.\par
   - Collector Boosters focus on premium treatments and collector cards.\par
   - Jumpstart Boosters are for quick themed gameplay.\par
   - Commander Decks are ready-to-play Commander products.\par
   - Collector\u8217?s Edition Commander Decks are the premium surge-foil versions.\par
   - Scene Boxes are for collecting/displaying scene cards.\par
   - Beginner Box is for onboarding new players.\par
   - Draft Night provides a multi-player draft-oriented package with 12 Play Boosters and 1 Collector Booster.\par
\par
---\par
\par
## 8. Source and Use Notes\par
\par
- Official source page: https://magic.wizards.com/en/news/feature/collecting-marvel-super-heroes\par
- Source publisher: Wizards of the Coast.\par
- Source publication date: June 2, 2026.\par
- Digest creation date: June 12, 2026.\par
- This KB is designed for retrieval by a custom GPT. It emphasizes factual reference information over promotional wording.\par
- For card-specific oracle text, rulings, and current legality, use an official card database or Scryfall alongside this product-focused KB.\par

}